Knowing the basics of how each type of blockchain works,
we can now decide which of these is the right one for our application.
We can do this by asking ourselves questions.
First, will all transactions be public?
In this case, everyone will have full access to the data in the network.
If that works for your application,
you can choose a public blockchain.
In most situations where a public blockchain won't work,
it's because there are some regulations or
permissions that a company will need control over.
When working with company data,
that's particularly a good time to think of the next question.
Will all transactions be restricted to only specific users?
If the answer is yes,
then a private blockchain is probably the best option here.
Another note though, is that it's also
a good time to consider if you need a blockchain at all.
Like we mentioned, a lot of the value of a blockchain is thought to be its open access.
It's possible that a private blockchain is the right solution,
but be sure to consider the value a blockchain is
adding if this core benefit is being restricted.
Finally, ask yourself this.
Should some information be public,
while other information is restricted?
This could be the case if you want to share information across multiple companies,
but not have it be completely open to the public.
If the answer is yes,
then a hybrid blockchain could be the right solution in this case.
These questions are a great starting point as a check for any new ideas you might have.
To make the final decision,
we'll take some extra thought as you consider the unique situation you're up against.
Once you decide which type of blockchain you'd like to use,
there are still many things to consider about how to implement it.
To understand how it could be implemented,
it helps to dig in and see what the underlying data structures could look like.
We'll cover that next by exploring data in the Bitcoin blockchain.